after this year's WWDC it is going to be
really hard to be an apple hater they
showed off a laundry list of new
features and quality of life
improvements across their platforms that
finally address some of my most
long-standing gripes and introduce me to
ideas that I never knew that I needed
Shazam but for TV and movies that sounds
shamazing a reader mode that doesn't
block ads but rather defocuses them yes
please RC text message support I mean
sure as long as I can still tell who the
disgusting green bubbles are wait T9
dialing are you kidding me this is
amazing and how about an AI enhanced
Siri that can find that email that
someone sent me the list is seriously so
long and legitimately exciting that it
was hard to find a spot to segue to our
sponsor I fix it laptops aren't cheap so
why would you run out and buy a new one
when I fix it can help give your old one
a new lease on life check out their
replacement parts and guides at the link
in the video description let's kick off
with what's new with Siri starting with
the ability to talk to Siri via text
finally I don't need to look like a
jackass yakking at my phone just to
quickly set a reminder I still will of
course because my hands being full is
the main reason to use a digital
assistant but hey it's the thought that
counts speaking of Siri can finally
understand when you pause and can't
remember what you were going to say or
if you just mess up rather than needing
to start a new prompt it's things like
this assuming they actually work this
time that should really help bring the
experience closer to what we were sold
back with the iPhone 4S and it's not
just Siri either new AI enhanced
functions are now built into all of
Apple's operating systems that allow you
to quickly generate smart replies
proofread or rewrite messages and
summarize content which is incredibly
useful probably the most useful tool for
me though is reduce interruptions which
uses Clues to figure out what
notifications are likely to be actually
important versus which ones are probably
not so much it's kind of like Focus mode
but more automatic but how is all of
this working well Apple claims that
their machine learning algorithms
primarily run on device as they always
have but because of the increasing
complexity of these tasks Apple's
implementing what they call Private
Cloud compute a system whereby
information relevant to the task and
only that information is sent to Apple's
servers to supplement the computer
that's in your pocket or on your wrist
Apple explicitly pointed out that these
servers run Apple silicon which means I
don't know maybe exer is coming back
probably not but you can't blame a girl
for hoping whatever silicon is involved
Apple was very careful to make it clear
that they cannot read your information
even going as far as to dedicate whole
sections of the hour and a half long
presentation to explaining how the
system works now assuming that you trust
Apple more than you do Microsoft their
recall like features might be pretty
useful and like recall most of the
functionality is already on your I
device in a more limited form for
example you can already search for
people's faces or for appointments and
iMessage but now you can do so in a more
natural open-ended way Apple didn't
explain how metadata for these new
capabilities is handled where it's
stored and whether local apps can access
it but they did invite independent
experts to audit the process
and according to Apple I devices and
Macs will refuse to connect to a private
Cloud Server unless it's been publicly
logged for inspection in general it was
clear that they wanted to avoid any
comparisons to Microsoft around the
issues of privacy and security this
extends even to the integration of chat
GPT in iOS 18 and Mac OS Sequoia a
little more on those later for example
if a prompt is deemed to be too
complicated for Siri it will ask you
before sending it to open aai and it
will escate your device's IP address on
the subject of open aai you can link
your open a account if you want to
access paid chat GPT features but by
default it is free with no account
required and Apple's agreement with open
aai requires them to not store requests
moving on gen emojis are an interesting
if Eerie concept but what's cooler is
Apple's new tool image playground that
underpins it it can be used to create
images out of simple prompts and its
integration applications like Apple
notes allows you to quickly and easily
turn just a basic sketch and maybe a
simple wordcloud into a finished image
for now it's available in three
different styles but I would expect that
to expand in the future now let's shift
gears and talk about what I am most
excited about iOS 18 and its ability to
do what Android has done since basically
forever that's right my friends T9
dialing
baby just kidding um they did add that
but they added so much you can finally
arrange your apps and widgets however
you want to if you've got a nice picture
you want to set as your wallpaper but
key parts are covered with those stupid
app icons you don't have to deal with
that anymore also they barely touched on
this during the presentation but you can
now resize your apps which is great if
you were in your Prime when the first
iPhone came out but aren't as dextrous
as you once were they've also got their
new dark mode to make those icons black
but what's even cooler is their new
customization sheet that lets you tint
them with whatever color you want and I
get it this is a minor thing that
doesn't serve a purpose other than to
make your device look a little more you
but look if you're going to list
customization as something that you love
about Android you don't get to suddenly
not care about it when Apple has a cool
idea like their new personalization for
control center not only can you swipe to
new groups of controls like for media
playback or for your smart home but you
can add more controls to each group
through the new controls Gallery you can
res size them you can change the layout
and thanks to the new controls API for
devs you're going to see third party app
controls as options that you can just
add wherever you want just like you can
add pins wherever you want our keyboard
pins are back on LTT store.com overall
this is amazing I mean it feels like
apple is finally starting to get why so
many people prefer Android devices I
mean obviously they're still nowhere
near as open as the competition and I
would loved to see features like these I
don't know 10 years ago but late is
better than never and on that note
similar to the competition you're going
to be able to do stuff from the lock
screen now like take a note instead of
being locked to just the camera and
flashlight buttons man that's a really
big one oh speaking of phone locks
another feature Apple has always been
big on has been security and privacy so
of course we're getting more of that
with the ability to lock and hide
individual apps what's really cool is
that any info from a locked app won't
even appear in other places like in
search or notifications so finally I can
lend yvon my phone without her seeing a
random grinder notification wait who put
that in the script we don't talk about
that no I'm I'm joking obviously I'm
more of a Scruff guy anyway but in all
seriousness this is a great feature for
personal privacy or even just parents
who lend their phone to their kids and
don't want their stuff messed up on the
subject of personal privacy you can now
choose which contacts an app can see
when it requests access so you can avoid
your weird uncle on Instagram or what
have you and you can keep your Bluetooth
accessories private and hide them from
anything else that might be on your
network like your computer or your TV
it's funny because I don't think I've
ever asked for that but now it just
seems like a brain dead obvious thing
like notifying someone when a call is
being recorded should also obviously be
a thing uh texting is also getting some
love with super cool features for
messaging like satellite messaging on
iPhone 14 and up when you're off grid
and scheduled send dude I love scheduled
send I use it all the time with Gmail
and teams and they've added support for
text formatting like bold metallics uh
text effects using any Emoji or sticker
for tap acts and at long last RCS or
Rich communication Services messaging
support wow I feel like that was a lot
and there's more moving mov on to mail
it's getting some love as well with the
ability to categorize everything
something that Gmail has been doing for
a while now but still nice to see here
and it's nice to see topography in the
maps app and the ability to properly
plan hiking trails including
turn-by-turn directions Apple pay is
also getting just about the coolest
thing ever tap to cash so you can
perform quick private user to user
transactions along with thirdparty
browser support even with some of the
stuff we're not getting to too like the
ability to stallin people out of your
photos or game mode which reduces
background sessions and reduces response
time for Bluetooth accessories like
headphones and controllers it really
feels like apple has absolutely knocked
this out of the park but wait there's
more switching over to Mac OS they're
making it a lot more appealing to switch
over to Mac OS Sequoia adds some major
improvements to using your eye devices
together with continuity need to answer
a message on your iPhone but too lazy to
get up and go grab it with iPhone
mirroring Apple's answer to Microsoft
phone link you can it is fully
interactable and whether you're docked
or in standby mode or your iPhone is
just sitting on the kitchen table the
only person who can see what you're
doing is you and they have finally done
it guys you get suggested tile layouts
when you drag a window to a corner or to
the edge of your screen it's a feature
Windows has had natively for a while now
and I'm very very happy to see it here
the same goes for their new presenter
preview and background replacement
capabilities for FaceTime and zoom uh
there's a new passwords app for keychain
that stores all your passwords pass keys
and Verification codes okay that was
just like before but now it's on all
devices including Windows via iCloud for
Windows which should make dipping your
toes into the ecosystem just a little
bit easier it's even available for the
Vision Pro haha that's right Apple
hasn't given up on it there's not a lot
to talk about with vision os2 um there's
ultrawide monitor mirroring now and you
can turn 2D images into 3D ones uh but
mainly it seems like apple just really
wants people to develop for the Vision
Pro with a bunch of new developer API
support with that said they are making
spatial content a lot easier to make
with a new professional workflow and an
EOS R7 spatial lens for Canon all of
this still super expensive but we'll
have it and all the other Apple products
we mentioned today in the link down
below will also have the new iPad with
its stunning tandem OLED screen we did a
short circuit on that recently I
couldn't believe my eyes pads get it
anyway it's confirmed to be getting a
ton of new support with iPad OS 18 um
there's a lot of overlap obviously with
iOS 18 I like the customization features
we talked about earlier as well as the
new floating tab bar that morphs into
the sidebar um and just about
everything's getting new animations to
look cool and flashy but what's huge
huge on iPad OS is the fact that it's
finally got a
calculator yeah okay that doesn't seem
like the kind of thing that I would
normally get excited about but along
with math notes this thing fcks and it's
also available on Mac OS there's way too
much to cover about their calculator in
this video but I think it's safe to say
that if you're going to school for
anything math and graphing heavy it is
going to be an absolute GameChanger
another big deal is the remote
permissions capability that your
friendly Neighborhood Family it guy or
girl is going to love that's right no
more endlessly repeating instructions
over the phone to help grandma or
Grandpa access the photos they hid in
some random folder now you can just ask
for remote access and do it yourself got
to love it that is assuming that your
grandma can figure out how to allow
remote access and when you pick up your
Apple TV remote you now get the ability
to run 21 by9 widescreen projectors for
a full-frame cinematic experience okay
we didn't have much of a segue into that
but that's a cool feature if you're
lucky enough to have a 21 by9 widescreen
projector in screen uh if not you can
still access the other big new tvos
feature by pulling out what Apple's
calling Insight which will provide you
with shotby shot information on actors
and background music it's actually a lot
cooler than it sounds when you see it
happening in real time and if you guys
need to mute that music or rewind that
scene close captions will come up automa
ically to keep your latest binge going
strong and if you just want to hear what
the actors are saying you can toggle on
their new dialogue enhancer nothing
groundbreaking here but little tweaks
nonetheless love to see them if tweaks
to Apple TV make you uh roll your eyes
and shake your head then Siri would have
taken that personally as a command the
airpods pro will finally be able to
respond to Siri prompts like incoming
calls or text messages silently with
just a nod or Shake of the head that
means that in a noisy envir M you can
answer a call with a nod and the
upgraded voice isolation Tech will kick
in and hopefully let the person on the
other side hear you and not the
Jackhammer that is working on the street
that you're trying to cross Safari's got
a couple of new features too like
highlights which uses machine learning
to highlight relevant information as you
browse it's neat but I'm not nearly as
sold on it as I was on the new
redesigned reader viiew which now
removes distractions from articles gives
you a table of contents and includes a
summary I can't help but wonder what ad
Service delivery networks go sorry
excuse me um kind help but wonder what
they're going to think about all of this
is it technically not blocking ads if
they just defocus
them R tray is interesting anywh who
guys there's so much more they've
updated their game porting tool kit
they've made improvements to Safari
they've updated the health app and watch
OS in general and last but not least uh
there's the segue to our sponsor I fix
it repairing your laptop might seem like
brain surgery but with I fix it it
doesn't have to be all you need is a
steady hand and I Fixit guides high
quality tools and reliable replacement
parts let's break it down together first
match your laptop and it's issue with
one of their step-by-step repair
walkthroughs then pick up the exact
component you require you can trust I
fix it to carry pretty much anything you
can think of got a dead battery hey
they've got brand new Replacements got
corrupted storage they've got ssds of
all shapes and sizes and then finally
every surgeon needs a good set of
instruments and iFixit toolkits are
meticulously assembled to provide
exactly what you need for your repair
see that's not so bad so go check out
iix it using our Link in the description
to give your busted laptop a new lease
on life if you guys enjoyed this video
I'm going to throw it at lm. g/f flow
plane where Emily and Jonathan from our
team did a reaction sort of more stream
of Consciousness conversation you guys
can check out over there